The error indicates that the backend isn’t recognizing any of the fields you sent as valid updates. In other words, the API is saying “No valid data provided for update.” Here are some common causes and troubleshooting tips:

1. Backend Validation Rules
No Changes Detected:
Some APIs only accept an update if at least one field has been changed. If the data you’re sending is identical to what’s already stored, the API might reject it.
Empty or Improper Values:
The API might be rejecting fields if they are empty or don’t meet the required criteria. For example, even though you set a default value for bio (i.e. an empty string), the backend might consider that as “no valid data” rather than a valid update.
2. Data Formatting in Your Update Request
Trimming Logic:
Your code trims the input values:
const updateData = {
  name: data.name.trim(),
  email: data.email.trim(),
  bio: data.bio?.trim() || ""
};
Make sure that after trimming, the fields actually contain valid content. For instance, if the user enters spaces only, they become empty strings.
Conditional Updates:
Consider conditionally including fields only if they are non-empty or actually different from the existing values. This can help ensure that you’re sending only valid update data. For example:
const updateData: Partial<ProfileFormData> = {};
if (data.name.trim() !== user.name) updateData.name = data.name.trim();
if (data.email.trim() !== user.email) updateData.email = data.email.trim();
if (data.bio && data.bio.trim() !== user.bio) updateData.bio = data.bio.trim();
This way, you only send fields that have changed and have valid content.
3. API Endpoint Expectations
Payload Requirements:
Double-check your API’s documentation or code to understand what it considers a “valid” update. Some endpoints might reject updates where the payload is essentially unchanged or where optional fields (like bio) are provided as empty strings.
Logging and Debugging:
Since you already log the updateData, verify in your console that it contains the expected values. If everything looks correct on the client side, review the backend logic that validates the update payload.
Summary
The 400 error is likely due to one or both of these issues:

You're sending data that the API interprets as unchanged or invalid (empty strings, for example).
The backend requires at least one updated field, or fields to meet certain conditions that aren’t being met by your current data.
By conditionally including fields and ensuring that the data you send meets the backend’s validation criteria, you should be able to resolve the issue.